>> Will Sentance: How's is this possible?
Well, in JavaScript, functions are what's
called first-class objects,
that means that look.
>> Will Sentance: Multiply by 2 here,
people really, it's just an object,
and I know-
>> Will Sentance: for our online audience.
I know that if I were to
create an object like that,
that's horrible, never mind.
If I create an object like that, I can
pass that into my function, no problem.
In fact, arrays or
objects behind the scenes,
we'll see that a little bit later on.
Is quite useful for us, not very
functional, but quite useful for us.
Based on the prototypal
nature of JavaScript,
it's gonna have some great features.
But to arrays or objects,
functions are just objects,
that means they can be
treated as fully first-class.
Have all the features of objects,
including being able to be passed
as inputs into other functions.
That's exactly what we did here.
That enables our functions to become
reusable with different specifics
of what they're gonna do.
Our copy array and manipulate can
work on any specific code and
what it's gonna do to each
element of the array.
One is going to manipulate
an element of the array to do.
And it means functions can be
returned out of other functions,
and that we're gonna see this afternoon.
Enables us to do some really profound
things like function decoration,
currying, partial application.
All to come this afternoon, but first,
let's just look at it for a second.
Which of these is our callback function,
which is our higher-order function?
Virginia, which you think here
is our grand higher function and
which is our little sort
of callback function?
This most profound of terms,
higher-order functions, intimidating,
serious, sophisticated, and
we've seen it all already.
>> Regina: Would it be
CopyArrayAndManipulate?
>> Will Sentance: Is our?
>> Regina: What?
>> Will Sentance: CopyArrayAndManipulate
is our?
>> Regina: Higher-order function-
>> Will Sentance: It's our higher-order
function, and which is our
little baby callback function?
>> Regina: Multiply by 2.
>> Will Sentance: Multiply by two.
Our higher-order function,
folks, there it is,
the function we pass and
multiply by 2 is our callback function.
The outer function that takes in
the function is our higher-order function.
It is a core component of functional
programming, and that's what it is.
A function that we can leave a little
blank on in order that when we run it,
we specify exactly what it's gonna do.
Just like we specify exactly
what array it's gonna run on,
we specify exactly what code
it's gonna use, and that's it.
All right, people,
just a name, you don't have to declare
them as higher-order functions.
You can imagine the language
where you have to say this is
not a regular function.
This is one of a higher order,
they can take others just by using it,
by inserting a function.
And so we're inserting code that
then ends up being executed inside,
that makes our higher-order function.
Also, by the way, just as a mention,
we'll see this later on.
Any function that also returns out
a function, we'll see that later on.
By the way, we'll see that later on,
and I will say this,
I give talks at these
fancy developer places.
And even their engineers with five,
ten years experience,
struggle with that notion.
Of birthing a function inside the running
of another function, saving it,
defining it and returning it out.
They struggle with it,
so we'll see that, but
that's also known as
a higher-order function.
So let's review
higher-order functions.
Are the easier, do they make our
lives easier to add features?
Let's see what it says.
We don't need to build
a brand new copy array and
add 3, copy array and
divide by 2, copy and function.
Just use copy and manipulate and with
the input of three higher-order functions
are crucial for keeping our code dry.
Don't repeat yourself, write it once, and
then combine it up again
to build new features.
We turn copy array and divide by 2,
copy array and multiply by 2,
copy array and add 3.
Three separate megablocks
of code into one, and
then add the little free
bit as a single line.
I just inserted in, add the multiply
by 2 in a single Iine, inserted it.
More readable?
Yeah, that's pretty readable,
copy array and manipulate, multiply by 2.
Once you get used to it, I understand and
create a new array doing something to it.
And I'm using a multiply by 2.
I know what this is doing more
readily than the four loop style.
Easier to debug?
Well, I would argue as long as we
understand what it's doing under the hood.